Two major changes that have influenced data processing requirements are,
new data storage technologies that no longer expect data to be
delivered in a specific format unlike data warehouse.
Second, point of processing has improved tremendously.
Processing is quicker and faster.
That means we do not need to process data in advance,
or break down jobs to get them done in time.
This is led to businesses creating ELT pipeline,
which is our second strategy of creating processing pipelines.
ELT, extraction, loading and transformation.
In ELT pipelines, data can be extracted from various data sources.
This data could be structured, unstructured, or semi-structured.
Data is loaded in data storage such as a Data Lake.
Any type of raw data can be loaded to Data Lakes.
Data Lakes do not care about the format of data.
Transformation is still required before data can be used.
This happens after data has been loaded in a Data Lake.
In ELT pipelines, data can come from various sources.
First, data is extracted from these sources,
then it is loaded into a data storage such as Data Lake.
After loading, transformation can happen.
There might be ETL pipelines,
built from that Data Lake to data warehouse.
They could be application that process data on demand,
depending on the consumers need.